# INFO201_Final_Group_Project

## Story Pitch

  Our first principle to decide the main proposal was to approach one of the ongoing issues that are necessary but complicated to be solved at once. A number of online sources claimed current serious issues in terms of environment, employment, economics, and health, and one article captured our attention, “Is your city making you fat? How urban planning can address the obesity epidemic” by John Rennie Short, introducing that obesity around the urban cities is a seriously underrated “epidemic” all around the world. 
  Individuals gather near the businesses to earn money and form cities, and for now, over half of the world’s population live in the cities. As people group close by, it takes a shorter distance to interact with each other, but leads to having less time to spend for themselves. They can efficiently buy, eat, work, play, and do anything they want in the city where there’s everything they need, but feel limited time, and the stressful constraint and obsession of time management forces them to utilize the more accelerative. The acceleration of urbanization has been able to feed their money, but has also raised their mental and physical illness.
	Obesity is one of the most negative returns from the risk of acceleration. According to the article by John Rennie Short, “one in five deaths of those aged 40 to 85 is attributed to obesity, and one recent study projects that by 2030, nearly half of all U.S. adults will be obese”. Especially in the US, the number 40% representing the rate of Americans considered obese is surprisingly high. Works and leisure activities in the city require little movement, which is even more decelerated by the emergence of private vehicles. Since the original cause of cities was simply for money and economic development, moreover, the rise of vehicles fueled the urban design to concentrate on the roads for cars and contributed to the greater acceleration of industrialization. However, the hurried urban planning has been the most fundamental problem that has popularized urban illnesses including obesity.
	In this regard, we decided to analyze the inverse relationship between the urban conditions like walkability and obesity over urbanization more in depth and seek solutions that can suggest an advancement of walkability for the reduction of obesity rate and further visualize the sustainable urban planning for the prevention of illnesses in urban lives.


## Finding Data

Our first piece of data was downloaded from Data.gov(https://catalog.data.gov/dataset/walkability-index), the governments public database for data of all sorts. It was created by the Environmental protection agency who created this walkability index based on a previous data product of theirs, the Smart Location Database. The Walkability Index contains information on every census block in the United States, meaning it covers every inch of the country. Using many different defining characteristics and statistics on the built environment, each census block is given a rating or a score. This dataset has 220740 rows and 117 columns, most of which will be sorted out as we progress towards the final result. The file was to large to drop into our repository.

Our second piece of data was found on Data.gov but downloaded from Lake County's own website(https://data-lakecountyil.opendata.arcgis.com/maps/lakecountyil::national-obesity-by-state). It is research published by the GIS department in Lake County, Illinois and contains statistics on the obesity rates of each US state. The data was generated by the Center for Disease Control in a 2015 survey. The dataset includes 5 features for 52 rows of observations.

## Background Research/Inspiration

https://www.fastcompany.com/90448831/bad-urban-design-is-making-us-miserable
  - This article focuses on the impacts of urbanization as a broader idea that encompasses the spectrum of walkability.
  - It also focuses more on impacts on the mental health of those living in a highly urbanized area, but this was inspirational for our project because of the effect mental health can have on one's physical health.

https://tomorrow.city/a/how-to-reduce-obesity-lose-weight-thank-to-urbanism
  - This article provided another source of inspiration through its suggestions for city planners to help create a healthier urban environment, even though we don't aim to provide such suggestions, we aim to show planners which states are on the right track.
  - Our overarching goals are quite similar, however, as we both aim to inform and help cure the nationwide problem we are faced with.

https://theconversation.com/is-your-city-making-you-fat-how-urban-planning-can-address-the-obesity-epidemic-130858
  - This article focuses on urban sprawl that we agree is a huge part of the problem.
  - The nationwide trend of building cities around cars is tied to this and a central focus for us, building communities where time spent outdoors and not in your car is valuable and something we want to show through our project.

https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC6747269/
  - This study also focuses on obesity studies and discusses multiple causes for the epidemic, however, we will only be focusing on the characteristics of built environments that affect the issue, not so much on health policies or other factors.
  - Whereas the scope of our project is limited to the United States, this study explores the issues globally, including places with much better city planning than in the US.

https://www.cdc.gov/obesity/data/adult.html
  - The CDC has more information regarding obesity and its discrepancies between different demographics, so we are taking a more geographical focus. 
  - The CDC understands the scope of the issue as we do and inspired us in that way, but does not mention city planning trends over the accelerated development of the US as an issue, which we want to bring to greater light nationally.
